Polkadot TPS FAQ (#4919)
w3f/polkadot-wiki: docs/general/faq.md

Bridge efforts are being worked on in concert with other projects in the ecosystem. Eventually,
there will be bridges between Polkadot and most of the other major chains.

### What is Polkadot's Transactions Per Second (TPS)?

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Polkadot is a heterogeneous sharded network comprising a relay chain and numerous parachains, which are all individual blockchains built on [Substrate](https://substrate.io/) executing in parallel. Hence, the Transactions Per Second (TPS) of Polkadot is a number that encompasses all the transactions on the relay chain as well as parachains. As the transactions on these Substrate-based blockchains are [weights based](https://docs.substrate.io/build/tx-weights-fees/), it makes sense to use TPS as a measure for the network performance if all the transactions carry the same weight. [Performance benchmark tests](https://twitter.com/gavofyork/status/1270025498580656134) show that Substrate based blockchains can achieve over 1000 TPS for balance transfer transactions. Assuming Polkadot is running over 100 parachains, the projected TPS is well over 100,000. With [asynchronous backing upgrade](../learn/learn-async-backing), the TPS is expected to increase tenfold to 1,000,000.
```

Author: Love this - thank you so much Radha!

Polkadot's TPS is currently around the range of 1,000 TPS and is **anticipated** to range from
[100,000 to 1,000,000 transactions per second.](https://polkadot.network/blog/polkadot-roadmap-roundup).
This is primarily due to the pending [asynchronous backing upgrade](../learn/learn-async-backing).

> It is essential to realize that TPS is inherently a subjective measurement with numerous factors

Reviewer 2: Which factors? It would be nice to mention a couple of them.

that can contribute to it. It's hard to gauge the usefulness of TPS in isolation, as it's highly
dependent on what a transaction does for a particular network.

> Furthermore, there is no industry standard for measuring TPS non-biasedly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer 2: Unless we can back up this statement with some docs / papers I would leave it out as it is a bit strong

Author: I'll adjust using this resource: https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-stps

> In the case of Polkadot, the TPS can be very high due to the parallelization of its network. Because
> it is effectively finalizing the state of many parachains at once.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the case of Polkadot, TPS can be high if we consider parallelization. Because Polkadot is sharded network,
it is effectively finalizing the state of many parachains at once.
```
